Welcome back how was the exercise.
Were you able to figure out the append method.
Let me show you what I would have done.
The first thing we would want to do is to create a new node with the value and we can do that quite
easily.
Saying Konst new node that's going to equal an object with the properties that we shouldn't be familiar
by now that we have value that is going to equal the value that we get as a parameter and then the next
that will be no.
So we have our new node here and we want to attach it now after the 10 node which is our very first
note well we can simply do that by saying this dot tail dot next which is the remember this spot over
here next equals Gnoll.
So that is what is the tail that is the last item in our list because this method doesn't know that
we only have one item we could have 100 items.
We just want to add at the end.
So it's going to grab the tail and then grab the next value of the tail.
So it's going to grab the pointer of the tail and say hey instead of pointing at to Noal pointed to
this new node that we just created.
All right we've pointed the tail to now point to the new node which has next node already set up and
then we also want to say that this what we had US tail before which was the value of 10 is no longer
the tail.
We have a new last item that is this tail is now going to equal the new node and because we are running
this operation after this one when we run this the tail dot next is still this node.
And as soon as we update this node to have a next of the new node we can now remove.
We can now update the tail to be the new node because by that point by the time this line runs the next
has been updated properly for this older tail value.
And then finally we want to make sure that we add the lenth Tikal tuneup.
So we're going to do plus plus And just for fun because we want to make sure that we do this right.
We're going to return this which is the linked list.
Remember this just references what this class is that gets instantiated.
So we're just going to say returned this so that we get back our linked list.
I'm going to remove the console lock for now and see what happens when we just run a point five.
I'm going to click run.
All right.
I have returned our linked list which has a head of value 10.
Next is the new.
Know that we created the value of 5.
And next.
No.
And then the tail is a value five.
Next is no perfect with a length of two.
Awesome.
It looks like it's working.
Let's do this one as well.
Append and there we go.
We have value of five.
So the head is referencing value of 10 which points to the next note which has value 5 which points
to next which is an object that is the tail because of the way logging works.
It won't show this nested I'll just say that this is an object but this is pointing to tail which has
a value of 16 next no length of three.
How cool is that.
We just created our linked list are 10 5 16 linked list just like that.
I hope you got that right.
But if you didn't don't get discouraged This takes some time to get used to.
Luckily for you once you write it a couple of times then it becomes like I said second nature.
So don't stress out because I have another challenge for you now.
You know how to do append.
You should be able to do prebend right.
Prepend is adding to the beginning of the list.
So let's say that in our list of we here we want to add one as our head now instead of 10.
How would we do that with a method called prebend this prebend is going to take a value.
And we're going to be able to run a command like my linked list dot prebend one to add the one at the
beginning of this list.
So code here.
Good luck.
Let's see if we can solve this one.
And I'll see you in the next video where I give you the solution.